Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm
The latest report came
from deep inside the Sognefjord.
What did you see there?
I saw a shadow breaking the surface.
You took your binoculars
and went to the window?
Yes. when I looked out.
I saw a wave in the sea there.
But I wasn't sure
about the shape of that thing.
Could you tell me roughly how big it was?
I don't want to answer that.
because I'm not sure.
But it was at least 200 metres.
I'm sure of that.
Navy vessels. helicopters and planes
searched the area for days.
Was there an unidentified submarine
in the Sognefjord. or wasn't there?
But it will probably be years before that
question and many others are answered.
Maybe they will remain
unanswered forever.
THE SOGNEFJORD
Hold tight!
Institute of Marine Research
- Hey.
I know it's your day off.
but did you see the email I sent you?
Sorry. I haven't had time.
And now the movement pattern
has changed. so I have to go back out.
I have to move that hydrophone before...
I need you on an inspection.
What do you mean. an inspection?
We got an alert
about a fish farm on the west coast.
Can't you call the Food Safety Authority?
No. this is a bit more specialised.
And more exciting than counting porpoises
and walruses that got lost in the Oslofjord.
What do you mean. got lost?
They were here before us.
Nobody knows more
about this than you. Johanne.
This is your field.
Where on the west coast?
Vangsnes.
But you know Vangsnes is a no-go for me.
We've talked about this.
You know I can't go there. Kjell.
They're utilising sonic delousing.
That's your invention.
But I'm done with that industry anyway.
Well. I'll send you a video
from the whistleblower now.
I have to go. I have a birthday thing.
Fine. but just get up there
and send me reports as you go.
God. now they're singing Happy Birthday
and everything. Speak later. okay?
Holy shit!
There must be hundreds of them.
Look. Maria! It's crazy!
They are fucked in the head!
They've been scared onto land!
It must be the fish farm.
This is so not good!
This mobile phone can't be reached.
This 9.000-year-old arrowhead proves it.
The glaciers. they're melting at a great pace.
But there is an upside.
The water from the glacier. the crisp. clear.
pure water mixes with the fjord.
It's the deepest fjord in the world.
1.300 metres.
And it's the perfect place
for our superior salmon to grow up.
Take a low pass over the fish farm.
Pay attention.
So. this is where the magic happens.
We use this room to adjust
and monitor our Sonic Lice technology.
The arrowhead worked?
To ensure the quality
and the health of our salmon.
Georg here is our head technician.
- Yes. Video.
- Yeah.
If I can direct your attention this way.
Welcome to Vangsnes.
A place where innovation meets nature.
The salmon in the fjord is under attack
by lice that works much like a parasite
that attaches itself to a host and kills it.
Sonic Lice is the solution.
Using state-of-the-art technology
to safely remove the lice.
our new transducers are using soundwaves
to remove the parasite.
This is a safe and environmentally
friendly way to save the salmon.
Join us at Western Salmon.
where tomorrow's technology
creates a better everyday life.
Sonic Lice to the rescue.
Sonic Lice.
The future of salmon.
Thank you. Georg.
That was. of course. an educational video.
Hey. you've reached Erik.
Leave a message after the beep.
The brain behind Sonic Lice himself.
Erik is our head aquatic engineer
and my on-site manager.
Sonic Lice is impressive.
but I heard
the sonic sound treatment can
stress the salmon and stop their growth.
Not at all. no. We take great pride
in the wellbeing and health of our fish.
The trick is finding the right frequency.
Too low. it doesn't work.
Too high. yes. it can. And it can even disrupt
the entire ecosystem in the fjord.
What do you mean by disrupt the ecosystem?
There's no chance of that.
We have developed the software.
Adjusting the frequency
based on the stress levels of our fish.
But the transducer is the heart of Sonic Lice.
Elegant stuff.
Cake?
Shiro. you want to start?
Johanne! Johanne!
Hi!
- It's been a long time.
- Very.
- Could I have a word?
- Hi. Bjørg.
Just one second.
Look who's here.
Gosh.
- Hi. It's been a while.
- A long while.
- It must be three years.
- Three years? Jostein...!
It's been at least seven years.
Maria! Come and meet your babysitter!
What are you doing here?
I'm here for an inspection.
An inspection? Right.
Hi! My God. Maria. you're all grown up.
Do you recognise her? She's the one
who taught you about seahorses.
You're working at Marine Research?
That's right.
- See you. Johanne.
- Yeah.
A dedicated young lady.
I have to take that picture.
- Can I borrow you for a minute?
- Sure.
It's been observed
in several places in the fjord.
These must have been really deep.
They're all blown.
That's several tons of nets.
How could they move around like that?
I'll check with my people.
This is where we were filming.
It's crazy that you blew the whistle.
What's so crazy about that?
It's her father.
That takes guts.
Your father runs the fish farm?
Yes.
Yeah.
So. how many views
does the video have now?
Stop going on about the views.
A bunch of fat girls scrolling through TikTok
and seeing the videos counts for nothing.
That's not why we're here.
- We're here to do something. right?
- Yeah.
Make a difference.
Have you heard of David Suzuki?
Do you know who David Suzuki is?
No. who's that?
You know who Greta Thunberg is?
Greta Thunberg comes up
to David Suzuki's bellybutton.
Alright. let's do it then.
I fancy a beer.
Did you know
that the Japanese don't like marzipan?
There's plenty of cake left up here.
Okay. Georg. you can turn it back on.
Okay. same strength?
Take the frequency down two notches.
Okay. copy that.
Module 4. active.
Attention.
Reduce Sonic Lice intensity.
Reduce Sonic Lice...
Deactivating alarm.
Look. there's that shit.
You have to shut it down
before it's too late.
The fjord isn't like it used to be.
I've missed you too. Olav.
Thanks for the ride!
The impeller should
have been changed ages ago.
Any more good suggestions?
You're never gonna get that working.
If Jostein calls. I'm in the workshop.
Erik?
Hi. Erik.
I tried to call you on the way up. but...
What are you doing here?
I work for Marine Research.
I'm here for an inspection.
I see.
You're running the show. I hear.
That's cool!
Erik? Listen. The inspector's coming
out here. and that's bad timing.
Hey... Jostein called.
Say hello to Johanne.
She's here for an inspection.
- Hi!
- This is Georg.
Johanne.
I don't know where you want to start?
Georg. why don't you show Johanne around?
Yeah. just follow me.
The fish farm is assembled out of modules
from various old warships.
It's unsinkable.
So. here's the lab.
It's run down.
but the equipment is brand new.
The steel is 35 millimetres at its thickest
and then we'll find starboard here. Here.
I just need to... get this.
This is an old captain's cabin.
Okay.
I've got the technicals
on one and two. so just...
Is she staying here?
Yes.
Right.
Let me know when you're ready.
What can you hear?
I was listening to you.
What I meant was...
Are you finding anything?
Something to catch us out on?
Not yet.
Want to listen?
Take this.
Why did you come really?
Erik.
You still in?
- We agreed on this yesterday.
- But what about the wild salmon?
The wild salmon is fucked anyway.
Let's wait.
Johanne will help us
shut the fish farm down.
Right. Enjoy your eggs.
I'm going for a swim.
In Vangsnes in the Sognefjord
two people are reported missing...
- Do you want coffee?
- Yes. please.
Can't you just let them go up
in the sea plane by themselves?
...but it's true.
Hi.
- I'd wait a bit to use the toilet.
- Mum...
But I need to know.
I've invited people for lunch.
That's exactly what annoys me.
Maybe you should just move to Japan.
Wouldn't that... Wouldn't that be better?
You're never here anyway.
Is that your boat?
- Yeah.
- It's really nice.
Thanks.
I got it from Dad.
For my confirmation.
What's it called?
It doesn't have a name. Yet.
But maybe something with Stella. Star.
I saw the video you sent.
You did?
Is that why you're here?
What do you think?
I mean. the fish are totally fucked
in the head. so they can't navigate.
Everything is fucked.
So. when are you going to shut down
that damn fish farm?
I'm not the one who does that.
But you saw the video.
I write reports and log things.
but someone else...
So. there was no point in sounding the alarm.
Let me just say. Maria.
I think it's amazing that you care so much.
You're all fucking corrupt.
Yeah. that's how it is around here.
How did it go?
To hell!
Salmon mortality
has increased in recent weeks.
Yes. by a few percent.
But the salmon lice numbers
have gone down.
Do you have many disoriented fish?
No.
Did you make that?
Yeah.
I need the logs for Sonic Lice.
That might take some time.
It's the fucking Matrix. this.
That's fine. I'll be here.
I'll take this.
And next year.
we are planning to triple our production.
Of course.
we need to get our applications approved.
And there are a lot of regulations.
And we really want to keep the high quality.
The highest.
Are you a small fish or a big fish?
Excuse me.
I'm a bit busy now. Is it important?
Yes. One module is down.
and we're having an inspection.
But you'll fix it. right?
You fix most things.
But Jostein. we need time
to organise these things...
What is she doing?
She's interviewing the salmon.
Asking how they're doing.
Erik. she asked for the Sonic Lice log.
Give it to her. then.
Turn your walkie-talkie on.
Sorry about that.
So. Jostein. how many fjords
do you have in Norway?
How many do you want?
Report inspection
Western Salmon Vangsnes.
Simulation of Sonic Lice
on live salmon heart.
Normal frequency.
no measurable effect.
Frequency above the blocking level
immediately affects the heart rhythm.
Above blocking level.
At max level we get soft tissue collapse
and 100 percent mortality.
Erik. you have to bring up 4.
On my way.
Fuck.
I'll hold it for you.
In there. Thanks.
I need to replace the transducer.
It's absurd to see it like this.
And think of all the hours we spent on it.
Do you remember?
It took a year to finish the transducer
after you left.
Four years to get this module done.
Hard work pays off.
Yeah. so that means it works. then?
- What?
- Does it really work as it should?
It got approved. didn't it?
Yeah. regarding the threshold values.
You figured that out?
It works now. yeah.
- Can you open it on that side?
- Okay.
Push it twice. Thanks.
What the fuck?
Bloody hell!
Report part 2: Discovery of unknown species
in Sonic Lice Module 4.
Possibly attracted by the sound itself.
Abnormal amino acid levels.
Looks like a deep-water organism.
Never seen anything like it.
Bioluminescence?
Looks like it. yeah.
It has quite a few
of the same characteristics as a parasite.
In that case. the host must be enormous.
So. you've discovered
an entirely new species?
You have some...
Do you need help out there?
Pull back.
- It's the missing jet ski.
- Thank you.
Look at that.
We need to dive.
Erik. I have to...
Must be a porpoise that got in.
Okay?
Ready. Georg?
Why did you have to bring them up?
They were being eaten. for fuck's sake!
They're in the cold room.
It's the two missing tourists.
Erik. can you turn off the light?
- Look at this.
- What are you doing?
- What is that?
- It's bioluminescence.
Bacteria that react to an enzyme
and become luminescent.
- Have you seen milky seas?
- Yeah.
This is just like that.
- From the fish farm?
- No.
This must stem from an animal
deep in the ocean.
And with this amount of luciferin.
the animal must be... big.
What could trigger
such a high production?
Many species produce more luciferin if they.
for example. are spawning or feel threatened.
Hi.
Hi! How did it go today?
Did they seem happy?
Yeah. how did it go?
No?
It's just that... They want
to make the project ten times bigger.
Congratulations!
We're signing at the restaurant tomorrow.
Thanks.
- This is good.
- Hi.
Where are you going with that?
Gonna dump it in the fjord.
If you're going to steal it.
don't do it in front of me.
Mum's a cop.
You have to steal it in front of me.
I know you have two grown men
down in that boat.
Damn. you look tired. Mum.
Can't you just support me sometimes?
Sorry.
Fucking hell.
Very good! Come on!
Yes! Good!
Okay. Vigdis. now it's your turn.
Are you ready?
Siri's got you.
Remember to flex your hip.
Vigdis!
How old were you
when that stuff happened?
I was maybe ten years old.
Yeah?
There was a dense fog.
And suddenly it was like
the whole fjord was boiling.
Then a giant shadow appeared.
And then it just disappeared.
Let's just stop here.
We don't need to go any closer.
- Where is it?
- See that yellow buoy with the light?
- Did you bring your diving gear?
- Me? No. I didn't bring my diving gear.
- Are you kidding?
- No. why should I?
You wrote in the chat
you'd bring your gear.
You need to stop smoking.
- Is she there?
- Yes. in the yellow one.
Did anyone see what happened?
Olav. can you tell me how big it was?
I don't want to answer that.
because I'm not sure.
But it was at least 200 metres.
I'm sure of that.
- It was that big?
- Yeah.
And afterwards.
some porpoises came by over there.
And they were jumping all over
and were completely spooked.
I can't dive in this.
I seriously think there are mice in that suit.
It's happened before.
Fish scared onto land.
- Hi!
- Hi.
Come with me.
What are you doing?
City boys. huh?
Cato and Hallvard. this is Olav.
What do you need?
Above blocking level.
Above blocking...
It sounds fine.
Except that it was recorded
1.300 meters from here.
- No. That can't be right.
- Yes.
The frequency goes all the way
to the bottom of the fjord.
- I set up blockers.
- Then the blockers aren't working.
- I know they're working.
- It's not safe. Erik.
There's something wrong with Sonic Lice.
The logs don't add up.
We couldn't make it safe either.
could we?
It was never safe.
Wake up!
Hey. what are you doing?
- I need the live log. to check something.
- Check what?
You have to help me.
I have to check the blockers.
It's all fine. I'll let you know
if there's anything abnormal.
Did you tell Georg to turn off
the blockers on Sonic Lice?
How long has this been going on?
Jostein?
Let's just calm down. okay.
This could fuck up the entire fjord.
Did Johanne say that?
She's just trying to scare us.
I need spotless salmon
while the investors are here.
It's just for a few days.
then we will adjust it back.
We're signing now.
You're about to become very rich. Erik.
They'll shut all this shit down.
you know that?
I'll come out there
as soon as I'm done here.
But I have to go now.
so I'm hanging up.
Sorry about that.
My wife; she is a police officer.
Everything looks great. Jostein.
We would love to join you on this journey.
Amazing. Amazing.
Champagne?
It is a very special grand cru
that I have saved for a very special occasion.
Check this out!
It's not just the salmon you've deloused.
If what we found was a parasite.
do you know what that entails?
Have you calibrated
that equipment of yours lately. or?
A monster salmon?
Erik...
We're turning off Sonic Lice. Georg.
No. Not until Jostein is here.
Could you move?
We're closing the beach.
Okay. guys. out of the water.
Can you get the kids out of the water?
Okay. guys. the boat will be here very soon.
We will only be waiting maybe 10 or 15
minutes more. and all will be okay. Okay?
- Are you missing a boat?
- It should have been here ages ago.
- How long?
- Far too long.
- Where is that hood?
- There.
What's going on here?
- She wants to turn off Sonic Lice.
- You don't have the authority to do that.
Just please listen to me. Jostein.
It's not just affecting the salmon.
This is affecting the entire fjord.
All the way to the bottom.
- Are you lecturing me about the Sognefjord?
- Jostein...
We have to turn it off.
Then call the Food Safety Authority!
We're not turning anything off.
Okay. be careful.
Module 3 is offline.
Did you do it?
Help me up.
Fuck! There's something down there.
Help me up!
No!
Don't let go!
Cato. what's happening?
Help! Help!
There's someone at the outermost pens.
Maria! Fuck!
Georg. turn it off.
It's serial-connected. It's not possible!
I can't connect to any of them!
- Dad!
- What are you doing?
He just disappeared.
We have to go down there.
Are you okay?
- Get them inside!
- Let's go. Come on. inside!
You too. Johanne! Come on. inside!
- Maria. come!
- Get inside!
Jostein. you have to let go. Go. go!
Anchor alarm.
Shit. it's enormous.
What the fuck was that?
We have to be completely quiet.
What is it. Johanne?
Parasites.
Come on. Come on. come on!
Anchor alarm.
What the fuck?
The whole rig is moving.
That shouldn't be possible.
Anchor alarm.
- Maria. come here!
- Let go of her!
Up to the control room.
Fuck this!
No!
Maria!
Johanne!
Dad!
Hey! Hey! Hey!
Hey there!
Hey!
Run!
Go. go! Go. go!
Maria.
Dad!
I'm here now.
Dad... We have to jump.
Okay. Okay. Okay.
Dad!
Maria!
Swim! Swim!
No! No! No! Dad!
- Swim! Swim! Swim!
- No. Dad! No!
Dad!
Reduce Sonic Lice intensity.
- Georg. where the fuck are you? I need you!
- Move. Erik!
Reduce Sonic Lice intensity.
Meet Sonic Lice. our groundbreaking
solution for a healthier salmon industry.
It took Dad. It took Dad.
Deep breaths. It's okay.
There you go. you're fine.
- Do you think it's coming back?
- Don't worry.
Don't think about that now.
We'll look after you.
There you go. Breathe.
Johanne!
It's not going to give up.
Do you have more transducers?
- Do you?
- In the workshop.
We have one chance.
Remove all the blockers.
we need maximum effect.
Okay.
It will follow the sound.
It'll be a bomb. you realise that?
We have to get it away from the fish farm.
- How far out do we have to go?
- A few hundred metres.
The transducers are connected.
Maria!
Sweetheart.
Hey... Where's Dad?
- What do we do?
- To the control room.
Up the stairs.
We'll draw it away from the fish farm.
We'll take your boat. okay?
Up! Up there!
The moorings.
Promise me
you'll get them safely to shore. Erik.
Johanne!
Mum... There's the boat.
The police boat!
No. no. careful. Erik!
Johanne!
Hello!
Olav! Have you seen Johanne?
One year later
Johanne...
I remember you once said that
only 5% of the ocean has been explored.
And that there is a reason for that.
Maybe it's better that way. you said.
But I have to go out there to find out more.
Because you also
taught me something else.
That we have to listen to the ocean.
Before it's too late.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org